[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura Vitale and on this
episode of Laura in the kitchen I'm
gonna show you how to make the perfect
crispy hash browns now I fear anything
like me you're a little bit of a hash
browns you know hash browns snob is I
like to call it because there's nothing
worse than getting a hash brown
that's not crispy when it's supposed to
be just saying and to me hash browns and
potato hash are two completely different
things if you love a good ol potato hash
check out my recipe for it's spot-on and
perfect every single time but for now
let's go over to very few ingredients
you're gonna need so we can get this
thing started
you're gonna 1 shallot 1 large russet
potato that I've peeled an egg white a
little bit of flour salt and pepper and
vegetable oil and this is gonna be your
just your basic traditional hash browns
you can do so many different things with
it sometimes I'd like to do like a
tex-mex style and put chili powder and
green onions in there you name it but I
really wanted to just share with you the
basic of it and then you can go from
there and I'll show you here I'll learn
in the kitchen as time goes on different
variations of it okay so what do we
start first a good hash brown needs to
be incredibly thin and incredibly crispy
so there's a few different things as you
can see the ingredients aren't very
fancy you can also use an onion instead
of a shallot it just it doesn't have
that strong onion taste for me it just
requires for you to do the rice steps
now the first thing you wanna do is get
a big bowl and fill it with cold water
now this is extremely important because
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna grate my
potato on my box grater and then I'm
gonna put my shredded potato into the
bowl of water now what that does is
helps take out some of the starch from
the potato that stops it from going
crispy so by getting rid of some of that
starch it really maximizes that crispy
factor that we all know and love so I'm
just gonna carry on with this and then
we'll move on to the next step that's
the end of it be very careful when you
get to the end of it because I can't
tell you how many times I have nicked
myself and cut myself on a box grater so
be very careful okay so
got my shredded potato here I'm just
gonna put this into my water and you can
already see the starch releasing this is
gonna really really help get that potato
to be super crispy now I feel anything
about me
you know that I patience is not one of
my virtues in life especially when it
comes to cooking I'm not a fan of
sifting I'm not a fan of you know
finicky things and I when I don't have
to take that extra step I usually don't
but in this case this is key to getting
the perfect hashbrowns I'm obsessed with
cooking you know that so when I tell you
that I have made this recipe for years
and this is the only recipe that's
worked for me and soaking in soaking
them in water really really does the job
I do the same thing when I make homemade
french fries I don't make them often
because we literally don't even leave
the scene of the crime the pots right
here with the French fries they come out
we all crowd around in we eat them
because it really does make a huge
difference all right so not chatting let
these sit aside send the water for about
five minutes I'm just kind of tidy up a
little tiny bit and we'll get going on
the next step my potatoes have been
sitting in vert in the water for five
minutes and I'm gonna introduce you to
the second most important thing you must
do to get the perfect hashbrowns you got
to get a potato ricer a potato ricer is
awesome honestly for making the perfect
mashed potato but this thing I'm telling
you gets the water out of those potato
like nobody else's business you can also
use a kitchen towel let me show you them
you take in a kitchen towel first get a
kitchen towel
you take your potatoes you put them in
you squeeze squeeze squeeze the water
out you can do that and works just as
well not as good as this but it'll do
the job this really really really is
unbelievable so this is what I do I take
a handful not too much a little bit at a
time squeeze everything out actually
don't even need this bowl squeeze
squeeze squeeze squeeze squeeze squeeze
and you'll see how dry the potatoes come
out look at that it looks like shredded
coconut that's what you're looking for
okay so I'm just gonna keep on doing
that
all right that's the last now I'm just
making enough today for my husband and I
but obviously you can double the recipe
triple the recipe you know to suit
however many people you're having over
all right so got my potatoes now to my
potatoes I'm gonna just grate in here a
shallot it gives great flavor but it's
not too overpowering like an onion would
be but if you don't have a shallot you
just got an onion in the fridge you
certainly don't want to go out to the
supermarket just look at a shallot so
cut up a piece of onion and grate it in
there it'll do the job a little bit for
about two tablespoons of grated onion or
a xiaolin that's gonna be fine for me I
don't want to go to choose too much okay
then you're gonna need an egg whites
just the white and the yolk a little
tiny bit of flour this is to kind of
bind everything together and hold well
season it with salt and pepper
remember potatoes love salts and now
just take your spoon and mix everything
together now I also have my skillet here
with some vegetable oil now as you can
see it there's just enough oil to cover
the bottom of the pan but it's not going
to be deep-frying which you know you
don't need now I will say that in the
written recipe I don't say how much oil
to put in there because it does vary and
then if you're doing multiple batches
chances are you gonna need to add a
little bit more olive oil to coat the
bottom of the pan again so just keep
doing that until you have everything if
you have the oil perfect and your hash
browns come out perfect every single
time and that's been preheating over
about medium-high heat all right so that
looks good enough for me now what I'm
gonna take and then first so let's test
this that sounds about right now what I
have here is a third measuring cup
device thingy and then this is gonna
make all the hash brown
the same size so fill this up like like
so put this in your hot oil then with
the back of this or with a spatula to
use a fish spatula you're turning the
back of this flatten this out a bit you
want these to be thin so that they can
get really really crispy and once you
put them in there and you flatten them
out do not by any means flip them until
they're ready to be flipped this is not
take a good six to seven minutes on each
side and medium-high heat if you can if
they look like they're burning after 2
minutes turn heat down a little bit but
other than that that's about it I'm just
gonna keep on trucking away and I'll
show you what they look like when
they're done and while my other two are
going here I wanted to show you the ones
that I just took out and look at this I
mean like listen you hear that I hope
you can this really is that's the way to
go when it comes to hashbrowns I wanted
to show them to you as soon as they came
out I just flipped them after they
cooked on the first side they took about
six seven minutes on the first side then
I flipped them and it took about another
five to six minutes on the second side
when they were perfection all the way I
cannot wait to dig into these with
breakfast because I just love weekend
breakfast you know the weekend for me
means a leisurely brunch and a home cook
long dinner that's what the weekends
mean for me but this is really about it
they're very simple and to do I mean
look at this okay that's a hashbrowns to
be proud of okay everyone just find time
with me little Laura in the kitchen I'm
calm
to get the recipe this is it I'll see
you next time
[Music]